---
title: I18N
layout: default
top_nav: api
---
# Internationalization

## Client requests multiple languages

A client need to specify which languages it wants results in, this is done
through the RFC2616 Accept-Language header.

``Accept-Language: en, de``

When an update request is done, graviton will always send a ``Content-Language``
header containing the languages of the document.

Please note that you are expected to request multiple languages to implement
offline language switching capabilities.

Languages are divided by "domains". 
The first part uf the url is used to map the domain and is then mapped as the ID for the translation
to make it faster for longer translations, sha1( domain + language + translation). This means that all
translations within the same domain will be unique even if attempt to save different translation for different
services. 

For example, an api /magazine/ translations will not have the same translations as in /book/ but if a book title
is updated having the exact same title as an another book, that second book will now share the same title translation.
This is useful is all translations will match but when designing the api schema keep in mind if a translation is what
you need.

## Server returns localized responses

The server responds with content localized into all the possible
language-tags requested by the client. It indicates which languages
where used in a ``Content-Language`` header.

``Content-Language: en, de``

````javascript
{
  "title": {
    "en": "Hello World!",
    "de": "Hallo Welt!"
  }
}
````

## Client updating translated data

The client should indicate what languages it's updating by using `Content-Language`. It should
send translated data in all the specified languages. Leaving out languages
will lead to an error.

## Default behaviour

The default behavior of graviton is to reply in english. Defined in parameters.

## Inner working of translation features.

The underlying data store of the translation features are exposed as service on their own right.

You may use these services to translate strings directly or to store you own application translations if you wish to do so.

* The `/i18n/language/` service contains a listing of all the available services.
* The `/i18n/translatable/` service contains a listing of all the available translatable strings.

The translatable structure:

* The `id` field is a based on the tuple of `domain`, `locale` and `original`.
* The `domain` field is based on the service name, it is usually based on the first part of the URL.
* The `original` field for original text to be translated.
* The `translated` field for translation.
* The `isLocalized` field may be used to indicate if a field has been translated yet.

If you want to store your own strings in the translatable endpoint you should choose a domain that does not
clash with existing domains.
